Sources:
https://blog.macsales.com/40947-tech-tip-how-to-use-boot-camp-on-an-external-drive
https://medium.com/@svenkirsime/install-windows-on-the-external-ssd-hdd-for-your-mac-5d29eefe5d1
https://pureinfotech.com/download-windows-10-iso-without-media-creation-tool/


Need:
External drive -> samsung T5 SSD and WD MyPassport tested with this method
USB Drive -> for the bootcamp drivers
Virtual Box for OSX
  https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads
The Terminal App -> included with OSX
KeyBoard and Mouse -> wired or usb wireless. The Laptop Keyboard won't work until the BootCamp drivers are installed 
  and the bootCamp Drivers can't be installed without a keyboard and mouse. In addition, early attempts to install failed because
  there was no keyboard connected.
A copy of the Windows 10 install iso -> 
  https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/software-download/windows10ISO
  How to download without the media creation tool: 
    https://pureinfotech.com/download-windows-10-iso-without-media-creation-tool/

Apps used
Disk Utility
Terminal
BootCamp assistant
VirtialBox

Collect the Hardware
This is up to you.
This was tested with the Samsung T5 500gb SSD using USB C and an old WD MyPassport 1Tb using USB 3.0

Collect the Software
Launch the web browser and navigate to the Windows 10 Download page:
  https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/software-download/windows10ISO
  
Select the version

Click Confirm

Select the Product Language

Click Confirm

Select 64 or 32 bit Download - Chances are you will want the 64-bit Download

The File should begin it's download. It is a 5gb file. Depending on your connection it may take some time

If you are on a Windows machine, The windows 10 install ISO can be downloaded directly following these directions:
  https://pureinfotech.com/download-windows-10-iso-without-media-creation-tool/

When the download is finished, place the file in a familiar place.


Download VirtualBox
Using the browser navigate to the VirtualBox Download page:
  https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads

Select OS X hosts

The OSX version will download. 

Once the Download is complete, place the VirtualBox.dmg in a familiar place


Download the BootCamp Windows Drivers
These are very important as they will allow your keyboard and Mouse to work with the Windows 10 Installation.

Open BootCamp Assistant
From the Menu Bar above, select Action -> Download Windows Support Software
Save it to a familiar place

These are all the materials.


Prepare the external drive
Launch disk utility
Find the external drive being installed in the menu to the left.

Be sure to take note of the Device Number in the lower right cormer
In this situation the device number(later refered to as drive identifier) is disk3. It is important to save this information for later

Each drive has a parent entry and a child entry.
Be sure to select the parent entry not the child entry when formatting

Select the parent entry for the external drive

Click erase from the menu above
In the drop down dialoge set these parameters:
  Name: WINDOWS10 (or whatever you want)
  Format: MS-DOS (FAT)
  Scheme: GUID Partition Map (Current) or Master Boot Record (Old)

Click Erase

Once the Erase and format are finished, click Done

Do Not Quit Disk Utility.

Prepare the USB Drive
The USB Drive Needs to be formatted for Windows so that it can be recognized
The USB Drive will have the BootCamp drivers

Connect the USB Drive to the computer
Find the USB Drive in the menu to the left.
Each drive has a parent entry and a child entry.
Be sure to select the parent entry not the child entry when formatting
Select the parent entry for the USB drive
Click erase from the menu above
In the drop down dialoge set these parameters:
Name: Whatever you want - It is UNTITLED in this example.
Format:MS-DOS (FAT)
Scheme: Master Boot Record
Click Erase
Once the Erase and format are finished, click Done

Quit Disk Utility

Begin the installation

Taking care of the little details first, copy the WindowsSupport folder to the USB drive
Be sure not to confuse the USB with the external HD being used for the Windows installation.

Leave the USB Connected to the computer so it is available later.

Install VirtualBox

Double click the VirtualBox.dmg file

Once the .dmg file is open
Double click the VirtualBox.pkg file

Click Continue

Click Continue

Click Install

Enter your password or authenticate with fingerprint

There may be a prompt to allow this software to be installed in the settings app -> Privacy and Security
Click Allow

Once the installation is complete, click close.

Open the Terminal app

The first thing to find is the drive identifier that the Windows intallation is intended for. This is listed in Disk utility.
Select the drive in the left hand menu.
The Number can be found in the lower right hand corner.
In this example the name and number of the drive is disk3
Yours may be different

If you would like to confirm, type this command into the terminal
diskutil list

This will produce a list of all the drives connected to the computer
The drive can be found by looking for the term external, the name WINDOWS10 (or whatever you used), and the size of the drive *1.0TB
In the right hand column titled IDENTIFIER, the name and number is listed first. In this example, disk3
Yours may be different

Eject, but do not disconnect the drive. The drive needs to be physically connected to the machine.

In a finder window, click the eject button or right click on the name and select eject

Return to the terminal.

This command will create a VirtualBox file that is connected to the drive. 

The file will appear in your home directory
This is the reason for finding the drive identifier.

Be sure to replace IDENTIFIER with the actual identifier of your drive

sudo VBoxManage internalcommands createrawvmdk -filename bootcamp.vmdk -rawdisk /dev/IDENTIFIER

The command for this example will be: 

sudo VBoxManage internalcommands createrawvmdk -filename bootcamp.vmdk -rawdisk /dev/disk3

Because the identifier for the drive is 

Enter the command and press return

Enter your computer password
press return

This message will appear in the terminal:

RAW host disk access VMDK file bootcamp.vmdk created successfully.

if this error appears:
VBoxManage: error: VMDK: could not open raw disk file '/dev/disk3'
VBoxManage: error: Error code VERR_RESOURCE_BUSY at /Users/vbox/tinderbox/6.0-mac-rel/src/VBox/Storage/VMDK.cpp(3426) in function int vmdkCreateRawImage(PVMDKIMAGE, const PVDISKRAW, uint64_t)
VBoxManage: error: Cannot create the raw disk VMDK: VERR_RESOURCE_BUSY
VBoxManage: error: The raw disk vmdk file was not created

Confirm that the drive is ejected.

Look in the home folder to confirm a file called bootcamp.vmdk exists

We will use virtual box with advanced permissions. This means we cannot open it in the traditional manner. 
We will open it through the terminal.

Enter this command into the terminal:

sudo /Applications/VirtualBox.app/Contents/MacOS/VirtualBox

Enter your computer password
press return

Virtual Box will open

Click 

Give your VB a name
leave the macine folder alone
leave the type at Microsoft Windows
Select the proper version -> in this example, it is Windows 10 (64-bit

click continue

Do not worry about the Ram
click continue

Select Use an existing virtual hard disk file

the list is empty.

Click the folder icon to the right of the list

Click Add

Navigate to the bootcamp.vmdk file

click open

If this error appears:


Confirm that the drive is ejected.


Click create

The VirtualBox interface will appear.

Select the name Storage to pull up the settings panel
This can also be selected through clicking settings icon above and choosing storage

Click the Use Host I/O Cache

In the tree menu to the left, select the CD icon titled Empty

To the right the attributes list has a drop down menu

Click the CD icon to the right of the menu

Select Choose Virtual Optical Disk File if the Windows iso is not listed

Navigate to the Windows iso and select it

Click open

To the left the name of the iso is now listed next to the CD icon

Select the System icon at the top of the window

Check the Enable EFI (special OSs only) checkbox

Click OK

Installation

There are a few steps in this installation that need to be followed carefully. 

The most important is that the Virtual Machine not be able to restart as part of the installation process.
We will interupt the installation at this point by closing the entire window

Here is a summary followed with specifics
After clicking Start, the efi shell will open.
Follow the prompts
When the actual installation starts wait until all the files are downloaded and the countdown to restart begins
DONT LET THE INSTALLER RESTART
Instead click the windows red close button in the upper left corner.
VB will offer 3 options -> choose Power off the machine


Specifics
After clicking Start, VirtualBox will open a window, in the window the efi shell will open.
sometimes the VirtualBox window will not expand to show the entire screen. Don't panic

type:

exit

press return

In the next screen, use the arrow keys to select Boot Manager

press return

In the final screen use the arrow keys to select EFI DVD/CDROM

press return

The efi shell will dissapear

Press any key to continue -> this message is obscured by messages from VirtualBox
If no key is pressed, the efi boot menu will return to the second option

The Windows installation will begin

Fill out all the information and follow the prompts. 

This is a normal Windows Install.

When the process reaches the option Upgrade or custom -> choose custom

the next window shows the available drives

Both items are the same drive, just different partitions

Select the larger of the 2 drives

There may be a warning below that says windows can't be installed on the partition

Click Format in the choices below

Click next

The files will begin downloading

Don't walk away - this is where we need to pay attention

Stay with the install until the Finishing up section is checked

Once all the files are downloaded, the installer will announce that is will restart and continue the intallation.

A countdown will begin. 

Before the countdown finishes, click the red close button in the upper left corner.

VirtualBox will offer 3 options -> choose Power off the machine

Shut Down the computer

Now is a good time to connect the wired keyboard or connect the USB wireless nub.

Restart the computer while holding down the Option key unitl the OS selection screen appears

One of the options will be EFI Boot

Choose EFI Boot and press enter

The computer will boot from the external drive and finish the installation.

The installation may cause a reboot. If it does the computer may not automatically choose the new drive. 

Restart, hold down the option key and choose it manually

Follow the prompts to finish the installation

Once the installation is finished and desktop is up, open the file explorer

If the USB drive from early on in this example is still connected, open it.

If not, connect it then open it.

Inside the windows support folder are the BootCamp files. Open the bootcamp folder and click the package installer

Agree to the prompts and the software will install

After, there will be access to the keyboard and trackpad

If you are finished, Virtual Box can be uninstalled using the script in the .dmg folder



